** PLEASE READ THIS WHOLE DOCUMENT **
(or at least, consult it as you go... it contains all the answers! more or less!)

STORY
the basic story line, is ..
for some reason you've gotta travel through the jungle, up the volcano, to the moon
floating on bubble encased enemies all the way!

your guy has two phases
"powered up" with the big bubbles
and "not powered up" with the small bubbles and no elvis hair
if you get hit when "not powered up" you die (though at this point, you just blink)
your powerup won't go away until you get hit (mario style)
.. when you have small bubbles, enemies take 3 hits
.. when you have big bubbles, enemies take one hit
.. you can stand on bubbles and float UP to higher places!

HOW TO MAKE A LEVEL!!!

1. click on run_game.py to try out what we've got
2. to create a new level, just create a RGBA .tga file that is the size you want ..
-or-
2. copy blank.tga (it's pretty big 160x160) 
3. and edit it with the leveledit.py 
4. you might want to check out how the magic stuff works in test.tga and phil_1.tga

LEVELEDIT.PY - KEYS AND STUFF

interface:
- menus for common commands
- toolbox
- tile edit area
    left click to use current tool
    right click to select a tile
    middle drag to move around the level
- tile select area
    click to select a tile
- code select area
    click to select a code

keys:
l - load
s - save
p - preview

a - select all
z - undo
c - copy selection to clipboard
v - paste clipboard at selection origin
delete - delete selection
f - fill selection

t - switch tile & bkgr layers

arrows - change tile
shift+arrows - scroll screen by 1/8 screen size jumps
ctrl+arrows - scroll screen by full screen size jumps
return - toggle fullscreen


F.A.Q.

Q. Hmm, I tried making a simple level with a platform and the blue stick guy, and when I tried to play, I got a "IndexError: list index out of range".
A. you probably need those red boxes defining the bounds of the viewable part of the level ...

Q. I set the background, but it all looks awful and things are smearing around
A. See level tip #3 -Make sure the level viewable area is *at least* 20x15 , otherwise
it won't work.
 
Q. I made an awesome level, what shouold I do now?
A. Show it to us on the irc channel... and e-mail it to philhassey@gmail.com - Thanks!

Q. Can I use the red or moon tiles?
A. Not yet - we need to add enemies for those parts yet (volcano and moon levels)

Q. I used run_game and started the blank level and the screen is blank.
A.  Use the arrow keys to choose other levels 

Q. What's the "dotted thing that stops the green enemy" with an arrow up?
A: place it in a gap to make a frog jump the gap

Q. How do you play (what are the controls)?
A. arrow keys, CTRL and ALT .. game also includes gamepad support
.. big bubbles can capture enemies, or 3 small ones.  you can ride those bubbles
up the screen! wheeeeeeeeeee!  THe "a" and "z" keys also work...

MAKE A LEVEL TIPS

1. Make sure you use the red box codes around the edge of your level to define
the viewable area
2. For using animated tiles, use the first in the series, the others won't work
3. Make sure the level viewable area is *at least* 20x15 , otherwise
it won't work.

4. Right now we only have jungle enemies, so don't use the red or moon tiles yet
because those are for when we have enemies for those parts!

TILE TIPS

- blue shard thing - a powerup!
- orange S thing - an extra life!
- vegetables (4) - points, 100, 250, 500 and 1000
- coins - collect 100 get an extra life!
- the dark blue face turns bright and falls when you stand on it,
    it won't come back
    - if you want it to come back, use the similar looking code
    it will respawn when you leave the screen
- the fireball should only be used offscreen to kill the player


CODE TIPS

BG: set the background, put a number in the next code box and that will choose the bg
see the images in data/bkgr to see them

DOTTED-LINES-AROUND-IT-WITH SOMETHING INSIDE: likely stops whatever critter

DOTTED-GREEN-BOX: defines a "door way" (you have to press a button to use it)
 -- WITH AN A in iT: defines an auto-door that transports you upon contact
 - to the left of the door code you can put in the "ID" of the door (a number)
 - to the right of the door code you can put in the destiation "ID" where you
 want to transport the player to.  make sure a door exists with that "ID"
 
 * you have to place a door code over the door image *
 
Anytime a user comes out of a door, you'll want to include a BG code nearby to
define the background of the area he appears in.

